because the effects of global warming
are so evident in the antarctic
the handful of scientists who were
working here 30 years ago
have been joined by thousands of others
what they're finding is a lot less
predictable than just
a gentle warming up for the start the
increase in snow over the continental
ice cap
is making it colder
air at a temperature of 50 below spins
out of the center in huge cyclones
storm force winds and waves then batter
the fresh sea ice
as well as the animals that depend on it
the sea can be cold enough to freeze but
the autumn storms won't let it
in their daily colony on the edge of the
continent blizzards leave their parents
hunkered down
or stranded offshore
but penguins are hardy animals the real
killer is what can happen
the winds can drop the water calms
and the super cold continental air
quickly freezes the sea
the adults might make it across but few
of the chicks would survive the trek
unpredictable storms break up and
re-freeze the sea many times each autumn
a daily chicks are growing waterproof
feathers as fast as they can
as soon as they are able they follow
their parents down to the shore
the sea is full of heavy jagged chunks
of ice
and the youngsters are naturally wary of
taking the risk
but what's their choice stay here
and starve
they can't get very far into the water
though and end up skittering across the
broken ice
[Applause]
all the clumsy thrashing and hopping
brings up another danger
a leopard seal
it won't get every chick it tries for
but it knows a good hunting spot when it
sees one
finally the fledglings take their first
flight
[Applause]
[Music]
any youngsters that didn't take the
plunge are quickly isolated and
abandoned
[Music]
as the south polar cyclones get even
colder they'll freeze
[Music]
as autumn advances so does the sea ice
at an average of a few miles a day
and penguins are driven north ahead of
its edge
chinstraps a dailies and most of the
other penguins will spend the winter at
sea
fishing
they cling to icebergs and generally
wait for spring
[Applause]
you